---
description: >-
  On this escrow page, you can find information about the use and benefits of
  escrow, particularly the escrow service offered by Etherspay.
---

# Escrow

Escrow is a financial arrangement where a third party holds and regulates payment of funds required for two parties involved in a transaction. It helps make transactions more secure by keeping the payment in a secure, temporary escrow account (generated by Etherspay) which is only released when all of the terms of an agreement are met by both parties.

Escrow is commonly used in trades, but can also be used in other types of transactions such as online purchases or freelance services. In Etherspay, users can use the escrow service to securely hold and regulate payments for transactions, ensuring that payments are only released when both parties have fulfilled their obligations.

&#x20;

#### Use cases

Escrow can be useful when building a online marketplace for example. In a marketplace, buyers and sellers transact with each other directly, without an intermediary. This can make transactions more efficient and cost-effective, but it also introduces some risk. Escrow can help mitigate this risk by providing a secure way to hold funds during the transaction process.

In a marketplace, a buyer would send funds to the escrow account, controlled by Etherspay, instead of directly to the seller. Once the seller has fulfilled their obligations, the funds will be released from the escrow account and sent to the seller. If the seller does not fulfill their obligations, the funds will be returned to the buyer.

This helps ensure that both parties are protected during the transaction process, and can help build trust between buyers and sellers in a marketplace.

&#x20;

#### Developer integration

Developers can integrate Escrow using the Etherspay API or any Etherspay library, such as the \`etherspay\` NPM package. This allows developers to easily implement secure and efficient payment processing in their applications or websites.

The Etherspay API provides a range of endpoints for interacting with the escrow service, including creating escrow accounts, initiating transactions, and releasing funds.

The \`etherspay\` library provides a convenient and easy-to-use interface for working with the Etherspay API in JavaScript applications. It includes methods for creating and managing escrow accounts, initiating transactions, and handling payment disputes.

By integrating with Etherspay, developers can provide their users with a secure and reliable payment processing system, helping to build trust and confidence in their platform.
